Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A.Data structure is a collection of data values, the relationships among them, and the functions or operations that can be applied to the data.
What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A.The basic operations that are performed on data structures are insertion and deletion.
List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A data structure is a way of organizing data that considers not only the items stored, but also their relationship to each other.
what is an Array?
Array holds constant number of values of the same time.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
 The difference between Array and ArrayList in Java is that Array is a fixed length data structure while ArrayList is a variable length Collection class.
what is LinkedList?
Linked List are linear data structures where the elements are not stored in contiguous locations and every element is a separate object with a data part and address part.
How is an Array different from Linked List?
In array, each element is independent and can be accessed using it's index value. In case of a linked list, each node/element points to the next, previous, or maybe both nodes.
what is queue?
Queue represents a data structure designed to have elements inserted at the end
what is stack?
Stack contains method specific values that are short-lived and references to other objects in the heap that are getting referred from the method.
what is FIFO and LIFO?
First In First Out, Last In First Out.

what is the order of complexity?
The smaller the order of complexity of the program's underlying algorithm, the faster it will run and the better it will scale as the input gets larger.
what is the best case to search an element from an array?
O(n)
what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
O(log n)
what is tree in data structure?
a tree is any datastructure in which threre are nodes that are connected by edges

what is graph in data structure?
A Graph consists of a finite set of vertices(or nodes) and set of Edges which connect a pair of nodes.
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
hashmap is not threadsafe where as Hashtable is. also hashTable does not allow null key/values but hashmaps do
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
RDBMS – Array (i.e. Array of structures)

· Network data model – Graph

· Hierarchical data model – Trees

How HashMap works in java?
hashMaps work by storing key value pairs which can then be used to compare results
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
this is an Exception that occurs when we try to access a index in an array that does not exist
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
What is difference between an array and a linked list?
arrays are fixed,linked lists are dynamic, arrays have consatnt access time, while linked lists do not
however, insertion and deletion are constant in linked lists, while not in arrays
What is DFS and BFS?
depth first search is when when we try to visit the furthest nodes in a graph first, while breadth first search is when
we visited the nodes level by level in order to stay as close to the root as possible
What is Recursion?
recursion is the process in which a method repeatedly calls itself with smaller data set then the last until a base case is reached

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
linear data structures grow directly proportional to the number of elements, non linear DS grow either faster or slower than
linear ones
What is Big-(O)-notation?
it’s useful to have a shorthand way to say how efficient a computer algorithm is. In computer science, this rough measure is called “Big O” notation.
it is a comparison that tells how an algorithm’s speed is related to the number of items.
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
bubblesort = n^2
InsertionSort = n^2
SelectionSort = 2^2
QuickSort = nlogn
mergesort = nlogn
bucketSort= n+k
Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


